A variant of the roomba domain, search algorithms, and
heuristic covered in lecture. The variations are as follows:
• In addition to up/down/left/right, the valid actions include moving to an adjacent square
in any diagonal direction, or staying put at the current square. If the roomba’s power is
zero, its only valid action is staying put. For the purposes of queue search, the step-cost
of each action (including staying put) is 1. This encourages the roomba to clean the
room as quickly as possible.
• If the roomba performs an action that is not staying put, its power is decremented by 1
in the new state.
• If the roomba stays put on a clean square, the state does not change (no power decrement). The step-cost is still 1, since staying put on a clean square costs one unit of
time.
• If the roomba has non-zero power and stays put on a dirty square, the square becomes
clean and the roomba’s power is decremented by 1 in the new state. Dirty squares do
not become clean when the roomba’s power is zero, or when the roomba does not choose
to stay put on them, even if it passes over them.
• If the roomba stays put on a charger, the roomba’s power is incremented by 1 in the new
state, unless it is already at maximum power, in which case the state does not change.
Chargers do not increase the roomba’s power when it does not choose to stay put on
them, even if it passes over them.
• In addition to having no dirty squares, the goal states also require that the roomba is
back at a charger.
• In addition to returning a plan, queue search should also return a total “node count.”
The node count is the total number of nodes that were popped off the frontier during
the search.
• You will implement better heuristic, which can be any heuristic that results in lower
node counts than the simple heuristic that is already implemented for you. The
simple heuristic is similar to the one covered in lecture, modified to account for diagonal
motions. Your better heuristic should still satisfy the formal definition of “consistency”
so that queue search is guaranteed to find an optimal plan.
